I hAVE ALwAYS BEEN A mATh-ScIENcE girl. I sighed and sulked
through classes on US History and French in eager anticipation of the
formulas and applications I would be learning later in the day. I believe
there are many factors which attribute to my success, two being my
fascination and persistence.
When I was seven I once asked what math was good for and why
I should learn it. The answer I received simply does not do math justice, “One day when you’re in line at the grocery store the cashier will
give you too little change and you’ll be glad you learned this.” now
in calculus I see the application of all these once foreign symbols, formulas, and letters. I am often amazed by the calculations I am able to
do using the cumulative information acquired from nearly 12 years of
education, such as how to maximize the volume of a box given a certain surface area. Math is not just plug and chug as many view it but
it requires creativity and thinking out of the box to solve the problems
encountered in the real world. Beauty lies in its simplicity and in the
fact that proofs and observations are what brought the golden rectangle
from ancient greece, Pascal’s triangle, and the Pythagorean Theorem as
well as a host of other theorems, equations, and postulates. Math has
made the impossible possible and the once long and tedious, simple
and quick. The genius of it is amazing as well as the fact that any person is capable of applying and discovering it. I draw graphs and try to
make shapes from functions for fun, count to 10 to calm down, and
save money at the store, too. For all of these reasons and many more, I
am fascinated by math.
I wasn’t always good at math, contrary to what students in my classes might say. When I first showed interest in math in the 5th grade my
parents laughed; middle school was even worse. Incoming 6th graders
were given a test on the second day of school and depending on their
scores were placed into a high or low speed math class. I was put in
the slow speed math and missed a lot of class my first year, as a result
my grade drifted from a B to a C to a C-, then I got help. I knew I liked
math and I didn’t want to do bad in it so I bought books and hired
my older brother to help me. I eventually made it to a B+. Later, in the
summer after my junior year, I took a course that covered nearly a year
of Calculus. I was told that if I decided to take Calculus AB, I would be
bored, so I went for a challenge. My strongest subject began to take up
most of my time. I had to read review books, go online for help, and
stay in during nutrition and lunch for extra instruction. It was hard,
but my dedication paid off and I earned an A. This persistence and
drive also help me excel in math.