mY rEASoNS For wANTING To BE a doctor are very similar to why
most people choose their career path: I want to make things fairer.
People such as social workers are out to help make the world a little
less unjust. It’s not necessarily injustice from other people that I want to
fight as these people do, but injustice from other factors. Many people
who are close to me have been struck down from their future in ways
that it’s impossible for them to recover. My aunt was a great artist and
loving mother before she developed severe schizophrenia. She now
locks herself in her house for weeks at a time and remains isolated
from her family. My friend Eric, who was once in his school’s varsity
basketball league, cannot play his senior season because a car accident left him nearly paralyzed. Finally, my friend vince’s depression has
stripped him of his will to live, and despite attempts of over a dozen
psychiatrists and medications he still spends most of his days aimlessly
lying in bed. While I try very hard to cheer him up by talking to and
entertaining him I am deeply concerned about his future. This trend is
something that I’m seeing almost everywhere. More and more people
are becoming depressed and hopeless, and I want to be able to put life
and happiness back into them.
not only do I see these injustices in my life, when I’m volunteering at my local hospital my desire to help become even more emboldened by the people I meet. A new grandmother I met recently had
her spine shattered when she fell from a ladder back onto a table. As I
talked to her, I remembered how many times I’ve seen pictures of my
grandmother lifting me and my cousins and caring for us, and became
overcome with emotion. While I don’t believe her ability to care for her
grandchildren will be destroyed, I know that she won’t have the same
opportunities as other grandparents and the inequality of the situation
makes me extremely upset. I want nothing more than to give back her
ability to walk and lift her grandkids. I believe being a doctor can allow
me to bring this closer.