whILE hEALING pEopLE wILL BE mY main priority as a doctor,
I don’t want to only help individuals overcome disease after disease.
For true change I must work on a much larger scale. I plan on being involved in research, and drawing ideas and information from my
patients and sharing it with researchers to find answers about the ailments that plague the human mind. By being a voice from the front
lines I hope that I can catalyze the development of treatments and
cures. Additionally, I want to become an advocate for public health. If
a government is doing something that is detrimental to the health of its
citizens, someone needs to point it out, and fight for a better alternative. Unless I do this then the people I help will continue to get sick
regardless of how much I help.
Still, my main task as a doctor is to help patients, and I want to help
as many of them as I can. Seeing the reality of the health of the world
is very important to me if I am going to properly improve it. I have
been so fortunate to live in a place where medicine is so refined, and
I am even more blessed to know that I have the chance to help spread
this refinement. While issues such as world hunger are constantly
being improved, doctors in other countries are scarce and locals are 
still being trained in ancient ways and often hurting their patents more
than helping. I want to give back my blessings a hundred-fold and
spread better medicine. First, I want to see the health of our world as
I help it by joining Medecins Sans Frontieres as soon as I can. Only
after I help things first hand can I make a mature decision on how I
should try to help the world as a whole. I feel the experiences that I
get from my education and the experiences helping people across the
world will give me a very strong ability to know how to help to the
best of my abilities. Today I am already planning for this journey by
teaching myself foreign languages. I hope that by the time I am ready
to help people, knowing many languages will help me bond with my
patients and truly make me a doctor without borders. I plan on fighting
for health for as long as I can, and I want to help every person I can
regardless of background, money or stigma.