ThIS pAST SUmmEr I hAd ThE opportunity to participate in a highly
rigorous academic program at MIT called MITES, Minority Introduction
to Engineering and Science. For six and a half weeks I lived with 68
other rising seniors and college undergrads. Though we were all warned
about how hard the program would be, we were all at the top of our
classes and refused to believe it- after all, who did they think we were?
The first day we sat together in a small auditorium, unaware of each
other and of what lay ahead. We were told that our confidence would
be shattered, our minds blown away, and our lives changed forever.
Still somewhat unmoved, we were not afraid.
By the second week of MITES valedictorians, nerds, bookworms,
and techies alike were leaning on each other’s shoulders at two in the
morning crying over problem sets they had imagined only in nightmares. It is a well known fact that hard times bring friends closer together, but I would have never expected for these strangers to become
my best friends, my support system, or even my family. The 16 hours
days I was accustomed to at home did not last long. I was getting an
average of four hours of sleep per night, finishing a book per week,
zooming through subjects once foreign to me, and constructing a semiautonomous robot from drill motors all at the same time.
We were each enrolled in 5 classes, my schedule consisted of
Introductory Physics, Engineering Design, Chemistry, first year
Calculus, and Humanities. In the month and a half we completed a
semester of Physics and Chemistry each, a full year of Calculus, the material equivalent to a semester in AP literature, and introductory level
engineering. The work was so intense that when I entered school in the 
fall I enrolled in second year Calculus, and maintained the only A in AP
Physics, having no physics experience prior to MITES.
Since this program I have not been satisfied with the regular coursework given at my school. I am constantly on the lookout for new programs to enroll in and other teams, clubs, and groups to join. This
academic school year marks the peak of my involvement in educational opportunities. I have somehow managed to find time for the
Speech and Debate team, ACE mentoring team, swim team, Science
Bowl team, California Honors Society and Scholarship Federation, Play
Production, Jewish Student Union, gEAr-UP Mentoring Program, and
folklorico dancing.
MITES was the most challenging experience of my life. The program is the single most pivotal point in my academic endeavors to date.
The assistants we had had all gone through the program and agreed
that even in college at Harvard, MIT, Caltech, and Princeton, nothing
came close. The motivation and encouragement I gained from MITES
has fueled my academic pursuits and pushed me to raise the bar.