EVErY TImE I drIVE INTo A client’s driveway, there’s always that moment. That moment where I must shed any doubt I have and become
adamant. That moment where I realize that, people are depending on
me, and I must do my best to help them. And that moment where, with
tool bag to my side, I must prepare to face whatever problem is waiting
for me in their house. This time is no different. As with the hundreds
of other problems I’ve faced, I must remember that every problem has
a solution, and I can find it.
When I am greeted by a middle-aged woman as I approach the
house, my remaining doubts evaporate. Once I see the individual I am
about to help I become saturated with resolve. However, all she will see
from me is a smile as I ask her how she is. I then ask her what the problem is, and she leads me to her computer. She tells me that her computer is shutting down randomly, and then leaves as I begin to work.
With a simple push of the power button, the process begins.
Unfortunately, for this case, just as quickly as it starts—the computer 
shuts off. never discouraged, I dismantle it to look for obvious signs
of damage. However, everything here appears normal: wires secure,
circuits shining.
But there’s another test that may work. Eyes focused on the inside
of the computer, I turn it on again. I have only a moment before it succumbs to its ailment again. Additionally, each time it starts could be
damaging, so I have to make this count. When the sound of electricity
surging through the computer begins, I immediately notice a vital fan
failing to twirl: the computer is simply overheating. With a quick pull
of the power I anesthetize the computer and operate. Using a replacement and screwdriver from my bag, I give the computer a new fan.
Then, I start the computer nervously, but it starts perfectly.
My confidence and determination sweat off as accomplishment. I
quickly look for the woman. She can tell I solved her problem as I walk
towards her with a grin, and she smiles too.
This case is one of the hundreds I’ve solved over the past few years,
all without a single failure to find a practical solution. I started my
business because after seeing how grossly overcharged the community
was by corporate technicians, I believed it would be a practical and
great way for me to help the community and have a job. After fixing
computers for my school for a year, school officials quickly noticed and
spread word of my work, allowing my business to spread like wildfire
throughout the local communities. With determination (and some creativity) I’ve solved some very unordinary and strange problems. I’d like
to use this same willpower to help people in even better ways. no matter how impossible the problems I encounter may seem I will always
remember what I tell myself when I fix