ThIS SUmmEr, I wENT To ThE governor’s Honors Program, also
known as gHP, a six-week intensive college-like experience where the
best and brightest students in georgia gather to learn and grow as individuals. It was the best thing that has ever happened to me. That
is something of a hackneyed phrase; people cheapen the extremes of
language by constantly using superlatives for everyday occurrences,
making it harder and harder to actually describe the few subtle and
transcendent moments of life. In Madame Bovary, Flaubert claims that 
language is but a cracked kettle on which we play music for the bears to
dance, while we dream of making the stars weep. The experiences we
have never fit within the too-close confines of language; but I will try
anyway. The classes that I attended were nothing like the classes that I
would take normally. nowhere else would the teachers encourage sixteen and seventeen year-olds to look for sexual imagery in Shakespeare,
and then find even more than they did, without the exercise being
sordid instead of literary. I attended classes named anything from Dirty
Words: Clean Thoughts (a class on Profanity; the only course in which
the use of profane or vulgar language was prohibited) to Teenage Female
Angst: Beyond Holden Caulfield to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. All of them
opened my mind to a brand-new way of looking at the world, and processing information. Thanks to the varying education that I received, I
know that valuable information about life is not only in the “classics,”
but even appears in seemingly mindless and trashy zombie films.
While I learned a lot in the classrooms of gHP, I feel that most of
my growth occurred outside of the classroom. I met the sort of people
who will change the world, who will go forth into the world and, without making a big name, will do the things that make the world a better
place. My best friends there were people that I would never have met;
people I would never have known existed; people that I can now not
imagine life without. One was a math major, an excellent athlete in
every sport, and an accomplished singer; the running joke was that the
only thing that he was bad at was failing. The other was a phenomenal
writer, always ready to play an endearing trick on somebody, and the
former’s girl-friend. Both of them were fairly conservative Christians,
and yet totally accepting of me for whom I was, despite any of my
clashes with their beliefs. I did not limit myself though, and made it almost a mission to find and talk to as many of the people there, because
I was sure that each and every one of them would have an interesting
perspective on things. Once I was walking back from playing Frisbee,
and was stopped to discuss what the ethical framework for life ought
to be; just for fun. The experience that I had there has undeniably
changed me forever.